docs/customizing_dashboards.md, before:

---
title: Customizing Dashboards
---

In order to customize which attributes get displayed for each resource,
edit the dashboard file generated by the installation generator.

By default, the file will look something like this:

```ruby
require "administrate/dashboard/base"

class CustomerDashboard < Administrate::Dashboard::Base
  ATTRIBUTE_TYPES = {
    id: Field::Number,
    name: Field::String,
    email: Field::String,
    created_at: Field::DateTime,
    updated_at: Field::DateTime,
    orders: Field::HasMany,
  }

  COLLECTION_ATTRIBUTES = [
    :id,
    :name,
    :email,
    :created_at,
    :updated_at,
    :orders,
  ]

  SHOW_PAGE_ATTRIBUTES = [
    :id,
    :name,
    :email,
    :created_at,
    :updated_at,
    :orders,
  ]

  FORM_ATTRIBUTES = [
    :name,
    :email,
    :orders,
  ]
end
```

To change which attributes appear on each of the `index`, `show`, and `edit`
pages, add or remove attributes to each constant array.

Finally, the `ATTRIBUTE_TYPES` method defines how each attribute is displayed
throughout the dashboard. There are a number of `Field` classes that you can
specify, including:

- `Field::BelongsTo`
- `Field::Boolean`
- `Field::DateTime`
- `Field::Date`
- `Field::Email`
- `Field::HasMany`
- `Field::HasOne`
- `Field::Number`
- `Field::Polymorphic`
- `Field::Select`
- `Field::String`
- `Field::Text`
- `Field::Password`

## Customizing Fields

### Setting Options

Each of the `Field` types take a different set of options,
which are specified through the `.with_options` class method:

**Field::BelongsTo**

`:order` - Specifies the order of the dropdown menu, can be ordered by more
than one column. e.g.: `"name, email DESC"`.

`:primary_key` - Specifies object's primary_key. Defaults to `:id`.

`:foreign_key` - Specifies the name of the foreign key directly.
Defaults to `:#{attribute}_id`.

`:scope` - Specifies a custom scope inside a callable. Useful for preloading.
Example: `.with_options(scope: -> { MyModel.includes(:rel).limit(5) })`

`:class_name` - Specifies the name of the associated class.
Defaults to `:#{attribute}.to_s.singularize.camelcase`.

`:searchable` - Specify if the attribute should be considered when searching.
Default is `false`.

`searchable_field` - Specify which column to use on the search, only applies
if `searchable` is `true`

For example:

```ruby
  country: Field::BelongsTo.with_options(
    searchable: true,
    searchable_field: 'name',
  )
```

with this, you will be able to search through the column `name` from the
association `belongs_to :country`, from your model.

**Field::HasMany**

`:limit` - Set the number of resources to display in the show view. Default is
`5`.

`:sort_by` - What to sort the association by in the show view.

`:direction` - What direction the sort should be in, `:asc` (default) or `:desc`.

`:primary_key` - Specifies object's primary_key. Defaults to `:id`.

`:foreign_key` - Specifies the name of the foreign key directly. Defaults to `:#{attribute}_id`

`:class_name` - Specifies the name of the associated class.
Defaults to `:#{attribute}.to_s.singularize.camelcase`.

**Field::HasOne**

`:class_name` - Specifies the name of the associated class.
Defaults to `:#{attribute}.to_s.singularize.camelcase`.

`:searchable` - Specify if the attribute should be considered when searching.
Default is `false`.

`searchable_field` - Specify which column to use on the search, only applies if
`searchable` is `true`

For example:

```ruby
  cities: Field::HasMany.with_options(
    searchable: true,
    searchable_field: 'name',
  )
```

with this, you will be able to search through the column `name` from the
association `has_many :cities`, from your model.

**Field::Number**

`:searchable` - Specify if the attribute should be considered when searching.
Note that currently number fields are searched like text, which may yield
more results than expected. Default is `false`.

`:decimals` - Set the number of decimals to display. Defaults to `0`.

`:prefix` - Prefixes the number with a string. Defaults to `""`.

`:suffix` - Suffixes the number with a string. Defaults to `""`.

For example, you might use the following to display U.S. currency:

```ruby
  unit_price: Field::Number.with_options(
    prefix: "$",
    decimals: 2,
  )
```

Or, to display a distance in kilometers:

```ruby
  unit_price: Field::Number.with_options(
    suffix: " km",
    decimals: 2,
  )
```

**Field::Polymorphic**

`:classes` - Specify a list of classes whose objects will be used to populate select boxes for editing this polymorphic field.
Default is `[]`.

`:order` - What to sort the association by in the form select.
Default is `nil`.

**Field::DateTime**

`:format` - Specify what format, using `strftime` you would like `DateTime`
objects to display as.

`:timezone` - Specify which timezone `Date` and `DateTime` objects are based
in.

**Field::Date**

`:format` - Specify what format, using `strftime` you would like `Date`
objects to display as.

**Field::Select**

`:collection` - Specify the array or range to select from. Defaults to `[]`.

`:searchable` - Specify if the attribute should be considered when searching.
Default is `true`.

**Field::String**

`:searchable` - Specify if the attribute should be considered when searching.
Default is `true`.

`:truncate` - Set the number of characters to display in the index view.
Defaults to `50`.

**Field::Text**

`:searchable` - Specify if the attribute should be considered when searching.
Default is `false`.

`:truncate` - Set the number of characters to display in the index view.
Defaults to `50`.

**Field::Password**

`:searchable` - Specify if the attribute should be considered when searching.
Default is `false`.

`:truncate` - Set the number of characters to display in the views.
Defaults to `50`.

`:character` - Set the replace character.
Defaults to `•`.

### Defining Labels

To change the user-facing label for an attribute,
define a custom I18n translation:

```yaml
en:
  helpers:
    label:
      customer:
        name: Full Name
```


To change the labels used for resources in dashboard collections.
Assume you have a users dashboard and you want to change "User #1" to "Testy
McTesterson", the user's name.

Add this method to the dashboard for Users.
Use whatever attribute or method you like.
Example for *user*:

```ruby
def display_resource(user)
  user.name
end
```

[define your own]: /adding_custom_field_types

To change the dashboard name in sidebar menu, sub-header and search string use default ActiveRecord i18n translations for models:

```yaml
en:
  activerecord:
    models:
      customer:
        one: Happy Customer
        other: Happy Customers
```

## Collection Filters

Resources can be filtered with pre-set filters. For example if we added:

```ruby
COLLECTION_FILTERS = {
  inactive: ->(resources) { resources.where("login_at < ?", 1.week.ago) }
}
```

…to a dashboard, we can query the resources of that dashboard with:

```ruby
bob inactive:
```

…to find users named "bob" who hasn't logged in the last week.

If you already had the `inactive` scope you could define the filter like so to
take advantage of existing ActiveRecord scopes (and other class methods on the
resource class).

```ruby
COLLECTION_FILTERS = {
  inactive: ->(resources) { resources.inactive }
}
```

Commit message:

Support for searching over multiple fields (#1203)

docs/customizing_dashboards.md, after:

---
title: Customizing Dashboards
---

In order to customize which attributes get displayed for each resource,
edit the dashboard file generated by the installation generator.

By default, the file will look something like this:

```ruby
require "administrate/dashboard/base"

class CustomerDashboard < Administrate::Dashboard::Base
  ATTRIBUTE_TYPES = {
    id: Field::Number,
    name: Field::String,
    email: Field::String,
    created_at: Field::DateTime,
    updated_at: Field::DateTime,
    orders: Field::HasMany,
  }

  COLLECTION_ATTRIBUTES = [
    :id,
    :name,
    :email,
    :created_at,
    :updated_at,
    :orders,
  ]

  SHOW_PAGE_ATTRIBUTES = [
    :id,
    :name,
    :email,
    :created_at,
    :updated_at,
    :orders,
  ]

  FORM_ATTRIBUTES = [
    :name,
    :email,
    :orders,
  ]
end
```

To change which attributes appear on each of the `index`, `show`, and `edit`
pages, add or remove attributes to each constant array.

Finally, the `ATTRIBUTE_TYPES` method defines how each attribute is displayed
throughout the dashboard. There are a number of `Field` classes that you can
specify, including:

- `Field::BelongsTo`
- `Field::Boolean`
- `Field::DateTime`
- `Field::Date`
- `Field::Email`
- `Field::HasMany`
- `Field::HasOne`
- `Field::Number`
- `Field::Polymorphic`
- `Field::Select`
- `Field::String`
- `Field::Text`
- `Field::Password`

## Customizing Fields

### Setting Options

Each of the `Field` types take a different set of options,
which are specified through the `.with_options` class method:

**Field::BelongsTo**

`:order` - Specifies the order of the dropdown menu, can be ordered by more
than one column. e.g.: `"name, email DESC"`.

`:primary_key` - Specifies object's primary_key. Defaults to `:id`.

`:foreign_key` - Specifies the name of the foreign key directly.
Defaults to `:#{attribute}_id`.

`:scope` - Specifies a custom scope inside a callable. Useful for preloading.
Example: `.with_options(scope: -> { MyModel.includes(:rel).limit(5) })`

`:class_name` - Specifies the name of the associated class.
Defaults to `:#{attribute}.to_s.singularize.camelcase`.

`:searchable` - Specify if the attribute should be considered when searching.
Default is `false`.

`searchable_fields` - Specify which columns to use on the search, only applies
if `searchable` is `true`

For example:

```ruby
  country: Field::BelongsTo.with_options(
    searchable: true,
    searchable_fields: ['name'],
  )
```

with this, you will be able to search through the column `name` from the
association `belongs_to :country`, from your model.

**Field::HasMany**

`:limit` - Set the number of resources to display in the show view. Default is
`5`.

`:sort_by` - What to sort the association by in the show view.

`:direction` - What direction the sort should be in, `:asc` (default) or `:desc`.

`:primary_key` - Specifies object's primary_key. Defaults to `:id`.

`:foreign_key` - Specifies the name of the foreign key directly. Defaults to `:#{attribute}_id`

`:class_name` - Specifies the name of the associated class.
Defaults to `:#{attribute}.to_s.singularize.camelcase`.

**Field::HasOne**

`:class_name` - Specifies the name of the associated class.
Defaults to `:#{attribute}.to_s.singularize.camelcase`.

`:searchable` - Specify if the attribute should be considered when searching.
Default is `false`.

`searchable_fields` - Specify which columns to use on the search, only applies if
`searchable` is `true`

For example:

```ruby
  cities: Field::HasMany.with_options(
    searchable: true,
    searchable_fields: ['name'],
  )
```

with this, you will be able to search through the column `name` from the
association `has_many :cities`, from your model.

**Field::Number**

`:searchable` - Specify if the attribute should be considered when searching.
Note that currently number fields are searched like text, which may yield
more results than expected. Default is `false`.

`:decimals` - Set the number of decimals to display. Defaults to `0`.

`:prefix` - Prefixes the number with a string. Defaults to `""`.

`:suffix` - Suffixes the number with a string. Defaults to `""`.

For example, you might use the following to display U.S. currency:

```ruby
  unit_price: Field::Number.with_options(
    prefix: "$",
    decimals: 2,
  )
```

Or, to display a distance in kilometers:

```ruby
  unit_price: Field::Number.with_options(
    suffix: " km",
    decimals: 2,
  )
```

**Field::Polymorphic**

`:classes` - Specify a list of classes whose objects will be used to populate select boxes for editing this polymorphic field.
Default is `[]`.

`:order` - What to sort the association by in the form select.
Default is `nil`.

**Field::DateTime**

`:format` - Specify what format, using `strftime` you would like `DateTime`
objects to display as.

`:timezone` - Specify which timezone `Date` and `DateTime` objects are based
in.

**Field::Date**

`:format` - Specify what format, using `strftime` you would like `Date`
objects to display as.

**Field::Select**

`:collection` - Specify the array or range to select from. Defaults to `[]`.

`:searchable` - Specify if the attribute should be considered when searching.
Default is `true`.

**Field::String**

`:searchable` - Specify if the attribute should be considered when searching.
Default is `true`.

`:truncate` - Set the number of characters to display in the index view.
Defaults to `50`.

**Field::Text**

`:searchable` - Specify if the attribute should be considered when searching.
Default is `false`.

`:truncate` - Set the number of characters to display in the index view.
Defaults to `50`.

**Field::Password**

`:searchable` - Specify if the attribute should be considered when searching.
Default is `false`.

`:truncate` - Set the number of characters to display in the views.
Defaults to `50`.

`:character` - Set the replace character.
Defaults to `•`.

### Defining Labels

To change the user-facing label for an attribute,
define a custom I18n translation:

```yaml
en:
  helpers:
    label:
      customer:
        name: Full Name
```


To change the labels used for resources in dashboard collections.
Assume you have a users dashboard and you want to change "User #1" to "Testy
McTesterson", the user's name.

Add this method to the dashboard for Users.
Use whatever attribute or method you like.
Example for *user*:

```ruby
def display_resource(user)
  user.name
end
```

[define your own]: /adding_custom_field_types

To change the dashboard name in sidebar menu, sub-header and search string use default ActiveRecord i18n translations for models:

```yaml
en:
  activerecord:
    models:
      customer:
        one: Happy Customer
        other: Happy Customers
```

## Collection Filters

Resources can be filtered with pre-set filters. For example if we added:

```ruby
COLLECTION_FILTERS = {
  inactive: ->(resources) { resources.where("login_at < ?", 1.week.ago) }
}
```

…to a dashboard, we can query the resources of that dashboard with:

```ruby
bob inactive:
```

…to find users named "bob" who hasn't logged in the last week.

If you already had the `inactive` scope you could define the filter like so to
take advantage of existing ActiveRecord scopes (and other class methods on the
resource class).

```ruby
COLLECTION_FILTERS = {
  inactive: ->(resources) { resources.inactive }
}
```
